# qsec
Quant &amp; SystEmatic Crypto research rools

**-->WORK IN PROGRESS<--**

This repo is a collection of research tools to help in exploring and building systematic and quantitative crypto trading strategies and for downloading data.

**Using the Binance historic data download tools**

*Installation*

```
git clone [qsec](https://github.com/darrenjs/qsec.git)
cd qsec
pip install .
```

*Usage*

The `tools` folder has a script  `binance-fetch-trades.py` that can be
used for downloading historic trade data from Binance (Spot) exchange.
Obtaining and storing this data is an initial step to having a research
framework.

To run the script we provide the name of the symbol, and the date range.
For example, if we want the historic trades for coin-pair TVKUSDT for the date 13 Jan 2022, we would run this command:

```
python tools/binance-fetch-trades.py  --sym TVKUSDT --from 20220113 --upto 20220114
```

The `tools` folder also has a script `binance-fetch-bars` that can be used
for downloading historice bar/price data from Binance exchange for different symbols.

To run the download for BTC/USDT pair, you can provide the name of the symbol, and the date range for let's say 1 week
for a per hour interval can be downloaded by

```
python tools/binance-fetch-bars.py --sym XRPUSDT --from 20220113 --upto 20220120 --interval 1h
```

**CAUTION!**  downloading trades can take a very long time, so only download them if your research/backtest really needs them, and then download only for your required dates.  It's preferable to use/download kline/bar data, which are much faster to download.

_qsec_ is strongly opinionated on data storage. Data files are automatically stored under your home directory, under folder named MDHOME, in parquet files.

**To-Do list**

[] Restructure MDHOME to support different time intervals
[] Do something more?

**Contributing**

Please contribute by checking any item off our To-Do list.

**Disclaimer**

The software has been designed for research purposes only and has neither been reviewed nor approved. Please do your own research before using. We are not liable for any financial ramifcations/benefits generated by the tool.
